Tech Support: services@elecfreaks.com

Ultrasonic Ranging Module HC - SR04
 Product features:
Ultrasonic ranging module HC - SR04 provides 2cm - 400cm non-contact
measurement function, the ranging accuracy can reach to 3mm. The modules
includes ultrasonic transmitters, receiver and control circuit. The basic principle
of work:
(1) Using IO trigger for at least 10us high level signal,
(2) The Module automatically sends eight 40 kHz and detect whether there is a
pulse signal back.
(3) IF the signal back, through high level , time of high output IO duration is
the time from sending ultrasonic to returning.
Test distance = (high level time×velocity of sound (340M/S) / 2,

 Wire connecting direct as following:





5V Supply
Trigger Pulse Input
Echo Pulse Output
0V Ground

Electric Parameter
Working Voltage

DC 5 V

Working Current

15mA

Working Frequency

40Hz

Max Range

4m

Min Range

2cm

MeasuringAngle

15 degree

Trigger Input Signal

10uS TTL pulse

Echo Output Signal

Input TTL lever signal and the range in
proportion

Dimension

45*20*15mm

Vcc Trig

Echo

GND

Timing diagram
The Timing diagram is shown below. You only need to supply a short 10uS
pulse to the trigger input to start the ranging, and then the module will send out
an 8 cycle burst of ultrasound at 40 kHz and raise its echo. The Echo is a
distance object that is pulse width and the range in proportion .You can
calculate the range through the time interval between sending trigger signal and
receiving echo signal. Formula: uS / 58 = centimeters or uS / 148 =inch; or: the
range = high level time * velocity (340M/S) / 2; we suggest to use over 60ms
measurement cycle, in order to prevent trigger signal to the echo signal.

 Attention:
  The module is not suggested to connect directly to electric, if connected
electric, the GND terminal should be connected the module first, otherwise,
it will affect the normal work of the module.
  When tested objects, the range of area is not less than 0.5 square meters
and the plane requests as smooth as possible, otherwise ,it will affect the
results of measuring.
www.Elecfreaks.com

